1. Flask: 
The "Do It Your Way" FrameworkFlask is a micro-framework. 
It provides the bare essentials—routing, request handling, and templating—and then gets out of your way.Philosophy: Minimalist and unopinionated. 
It doesn't force a database or folder structure on you.Flexibility: You choose your own tools (e.g., SQLAlchemy for databases, Marshmallow for validation).
Best For: Small to medium applications, prototypes, or when you want total control over every component.

2. Django:
 The "Batteries Included" FrameworkDjango follows a "Don't Repeat Yourself" (DRY) philosophy. 
It provides almost everything you need to build a complex web application right out of the box.
Philosophy: Opinionated. It has a "Django way" of doing things (MTV pattern: Model-Template-View).
Built-in Features: ORM (Database layer), Authentication system, a ready-to-use Admin Panel, and security features (CSRF/XSS protection).
Best For: Large-scale, data-heavy applications (like E-commerce or Social Media) where development speed and security are top priorities.

3. FastAPI: 
The "Modern Performance" FrameworkFastAPI is a modern, high-performance framework based on standard Python type hints. 
It is designed specifically for building APIs quickly.Philosophy: Efficiency and speed. It uses Asynchronous (async/await) programming to handle many concurrent connections.
Key Features: Automatic interactive documentation (Swagger UI), high speed (comparable to Node.js and Go), and strict data validation using Pydantic.
Best For: Microservices, high-performance APIs, and AI/ML model serving.

Feature,Flask,Django,FastAPI
Category,       Micro-framework,    Full-stack framework,               API-focused
Flexibility,    Extremely High,     "Moderate (The ""Django Way"")",    High
Learning Curve, Low,                 High (Lots to learn),              Moderate
Performance,    Good,               Moderate,                           Excellent (Async)
Admin Panel,    No (Needs plugins)  ,Yes (Built-in),                    No



python -m venv flaskvenv
flaskvenv\Scripts\activate

2nd way for venv 
pip3 install virtualenv
virtualenv .name
name\Scripts\activate

pip install flask
pip3 install flask-sqlalchemy 



brouser http get request flask matches it to hellow world function function executes return value captured response is generated given it to brouser 
brousers displace stl 





